# Sage
Sage is a minimal static site generator which creates a blog with a homepage listing all posts, an about page, and individual post pages. It generates the site based on content and template variables provided in a sibling directory named `site-src`.

## Usage

### Directory structure

Sage expects the `site-src` directory to be structured the way the generated site will be structured. This means that the about page, as well as each post, will have its own directory. For each content directory, the content body should be specified in a `.md` file, and variables should be in a `.yml` file. Variables for the site as a whole should be in a `.yml` file at the top level of `site-src`.

The sage repo should be cloned into the same directory as `site-src`.

### Example
```
.
├── sage
└── site-src
    ├── about
    │   └── content.md
    ├── global.yml
    └── posts
        ├── post-1
        │   ├── content.md
        │   └── meta.yml
        ├── post-2
        │   ├── content.md
        │   └── meta.yml
        └── ...
```

Note: the content and meta-variables files only need to have the `.md` and `.yml` extensions, respectively. Otherwise, you can name them as you like.

### Template variables

The site templates can be found in the `templates/` directory. Many of the variables used are generated by sage; however, there are some which must be specified in the variables files.

**Required variables**
`title`: In the top-level variables file (`global.yml` in the example), this indicates the title of the site. In post directories, this sets the title of the post.
`date`: Date the post was published

**Optional variables**
`tags`: Specify a list of tags for a post

### Running the generator

Clone sage into the same directory as your `site-src` directory. Run sage with the command
```
python sage/site-gen.py
```

The generated site files will be in the directory `site-build`. If execution fails, the partially-generated site will be in a directory `tmp-site-build`. By default, sage will not overwrite either of these directories. To force the cleanup of old build directories, run
```
python sage/site-gen.py -c
```
